# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

property.rb

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

4  Property.delete_all()
33 property1.delete()

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

There is no id when the property is set up.  ID is added by the database.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

In the def save function.  
@id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

Need the if statement as when property is added, it will not have an ID.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

An instance method will apply to a single instance in the class.
A class method will return all instances and does not require an instance to be present.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

An array is returned. Access the ID using array index 0.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

Defends against SQL injection attacks.


## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

find by id => id
find by address => address

Q11. What are their return values?
find by id
{'address' => '15 Hart Road, NORTHFLEET,DA10 1ZX',
  'value' => 90000,
  'bedrooms' => 1,
  'build' => 'flat'}

  find by address
  {'address' => '57 Carriers Road, CROESERW, SA13 7GQ',
  'value' => 400000,
  'bedrooms' => 5,
  'build' => 'semi-detached'
  }
